.Dd $Mdocdate: January 11 2023 $
.Dt LUAROCKS-REMOVE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm luarocks-remove
.Nd uninstall a rock

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm luarocks remove
.Bk -words
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl -force
.Op Fl -force-fast
.Op Fl -deps-mode Ar mode
.Ar rock
.Op version
.Ek

.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm luarocks remove
removes the rock named
.Ar rock ,
and if specified, version number
.Ar version .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width keyword
.It Fl h
Show a help message and exit.
.It Fl -force
Force removal even if it would break dependencies.
.It Fl -force-fast
Similar to --force, but don't report dependency issues.
.It Fl -deps-mode Ar mode
Specify how to handle dependencies. Four modes are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Sy all :
use all trees from the rocks_trees list for finding dependencies
.It
.Sy one :
use only the current tree (possibly set with --tree)
.It
.Sy order :
use trees based on order (use the current tree and all trees below it on the rocks_trees list)
.It
.Sy none :
ignore dependencies altogether.
.El
.Pp
The default mode may be set with the deps_mode entry in the configuration file. The current default is
.Ar one .
Run
.Sy luarocks
with no arguments to see your
list of rocks trees.
.It Fl -no-manifest
Skip creating/updating the manifest.
.It Fl -pin
If the removed rock is a Lua module, create a luarocks.lock file listing the exact versions of each dependency found for this rock (recursively), and store it in the rock's directory. Ignores any existing luarocks.lock file in the rock's sources.
.El

.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
Remove the
.Sq luafilesystem
rock:
.Pp
.Dl # luarocks remove luafilesystem
.Pp
